---
layout: post
title: "Module One, Week Three"
date: 2019-05-21
---

This week my view of "doing history" work and research has changed quite a bit. The idea of 'open access' is not a notion that is often associated with history research. Rather, it is often characterized by digging deeply into primary sources, keeping many notes and taking lots of time, as [McDaniels](https://via.hypothes.is/http://wcm1.web.rice.edu/open-notebook-history.html#annotations:-QqELnt0Eem-PIvRWf_JdA) explains "professional historians, however, leave many of our notes sitting in dusty file folders, overstuffed hard drives, and stacked bankers’ boxes." However, today more than ever, history is becoming defined by a different type of research and sources. The advent of blogs, interactive bibliographies, and more promise open access that brings benefits for intellectual community and exchange, error prevention, and a lasting wealth of accessible knowledge. 

This new view of research is a stark change from what I have learned as a history minor and student in general. Throughout my academic career, research has typically been framed as a individual endeavour only to be shared with the public upon completion. Pouring over books, news papers and online journals, my own experience with research has never been accompanied by my colleauges or acadmeic community. While professors encourage and help revise students work, the idea of "open access research" has been foreign to me until now. 

The presence of "open access research" is scary for many. Being able to see the working notes of other researchers can be beneficial to ones own research process; some what the idea of "learning from ones mistakes." Moreover, this allows for increased engagement with the sources by the reader, the author, and the community together. For the author/researcher, "open access research" may benefit in the writing process. Though it brings increased scrutiny, possibly unwanted, it also brings increased conversation and increased access to sources as historians make them available in the digital world. 

However, with this comes some concerns. As [Moravec](http://michellemoravec.com/michelle-moravec/) explains, research and writing is commodified. This means that in sharing and publishing work, scholars recieve an income. "Open access research" may pose a risk to this income as ones' research and work may no longer be unique as it has already been shared with the public or other similar works exist. With open access, how can historians protect their work? This is an important concern however, the potential that open access has fo creating a new wealth of knowledge, previously not accessible online, is drastic. If historians are able to control the access to working notes in a way that does not risk the integrity of their work, open access research seems extremely viable. 

As a student, I am at the beginnng of this change in research. Open access research offers students the opportunity to learn from other scholars in their field and access not only primary sources, but source they never thought of reaching before. Open access brings new oppurtuinities for new forms of publishing (blogs etc) and obtaining feedback from the community. As a student in this "digital" world, learning, researching, and working is at the tips of ones' fingers. 
